Add DS3231 Component (#1531)
OttoWinter/esphomedocs: components/ds3231.rst

.. _ds3231:

DS3231 RTC
==========

.. seo::
    :description: Instructions for setting up a DS3231 Real Time Clock in ESPHome
    :image: ds3231.jpg

The ``DS3231`` (`datasheet <https://datasheets.maximintegrated.com/en/ds/DS3231.pdf>`__) is a real time clock device
that includes 2 alarms, an output that can be triggered by either alarm or output a continuous square wave at 1hz,

> 1024hz, 4096hz, or 8192hz, a 32.768kHz output, and a temperature sensor. It uses :ref:`I²C Bus <i2c>` for communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that includes 2 alarms, an output that can be triggered by either alarm or output a continuous square wave at 1 Hz,
1024 Hz, 4096 Hz, or 8192 Hz, a 32.768 kHz output, and a temperature sensor. It uses :ref:`I²C Bus <i2c>` for communication.
```

Author: Updated

      id: ds3231_cmp
      address: 0x68
      i2c_id: i2c0
      update_interval: 60s
      square_wave_mode: square_wave
      square_wave_frequency: 1hz
      alarm_1:
        mode: match_day_of_week_hour_minute_second
        interrupt_enabled: false
        second: 1
        minute: 2
        hour: 3
        day: 4
      alarm_2:
        mode: match_day_of_month_hour_minute
        interrupt_enabled: true
        minute: 5
        hour: 6
        day: 7

Configuration variables:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **id** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-id`): Manually specify the ID used for code generation.
- **address** (*Optional*, int): The I²C address of the DS3231. Defaults to ``0x68``.
- **i2c_id** (*Optional*): The I²C Bus ID
- **update_interval** (*Optional*, :ref:`config-time`): The interval to check the alarm triggers. Defaults to ``60s``.
- **square_wave_mode** (*Optional*, enum): The mode of the square wave output. Defaults to ``ALARM_INTERRUPT``.

  - ``ALARM_INTERRUPT`` - The square wave output goes high when an alarm with interrupt_enabled set to true is triggered.
  - ``SQUARE_WAVE`` - The square wave output produces a continuous square wave at the specified frequency.

> - **square_wave_frequncy** (*Optional*, enum): The frequency of the square wave output. Defaults to ``8192HZ``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **square_wave_frequency** (*Optional*, enum): The frequency of the square wave output. Defaults to ``8192HZ``.
```

Author: Fixed

  - ``1HZ``
  - ``1024HZ``
  - ``4096HZ``
  - ``8192HZ``

- **alarm_1** (*Optional*): The configuration for alarm 1.

  - **mode** (**Required**, enum): The mode of the alarm.

    - ``EVERY_SECOND`` - Alarm is triggered every second.

>     - ``MATCH_SECOND`` - Alarm is triggered everytime the second matches the provided value.

Reviewer: "everytime" should be "every time" throughout this file.

Author: Fixed

  - **hour** (*Optional*, int) - The hour (0-23) the alarm should match on. Defaults to ``0``.
  - **day** (*Optional*, int) - The day of month (1-31) or day of week (1-7) the alarm should match on. Defaults to ``1``.

Automation Triggers:
.. _ds3231-on_alarm_1:
.. _ds3231-on_alarm_2:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # Example configuration entry
    ds3231:
      on_alarm_1:
        - then:
            - logger.log: Alarm 1 was triggered!

      on_alarm_2:
        - then:
            - logger.log: Alarm 2 was triggered!

- **on_alarm_1** (*Optional*, :ref:`Automation <automation>`): An automation to perform when alarm 1 is triggered. Note: This trigger may not happen exactly when the alarm is triggered as it is only checked when the component is updated.

- **on_alarm_2** (*Optional*, :ref:`Automation <automation>`): An automation to perform when alarm 2 is triggered. Note: This trigger may not happen exactly when the alarm is triggered as it is only checked when the component is updated.

Automation Actions
.. _ds3231-set_alarm_1:

``ds3231.set_alarm_1`` Action
-----------------------------

Sets the configuration for alarm 1.

.. code-block:: yaml

    on_...:
      then:

>         - fan.ds3231.set_alarm_1:

Reviewer: `fan.`? (also below).

Author: Fixed
